README.md, before:

# Thank You

This set of notes is based on the [open source JavaScript curriculum](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/tree/master/curriculum/challenges/english/02-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures) from freeCodeCamp.

Learn to code with [freeCodeCamp.org](https://freecodecamp.org)

## Inspired By freeCodeCamp

I created this repo, because I want to track my progress with freeCodeCamp, and because I just plain enjoy writing about code. Most of the content is Markdown or Text files, but occasionally, I will throw a [js script](https://github.com/hdevilbiss/freeCodeCampJS/tree/master/js) or [flowchart image](https://github.com/hdevilbiss/freeCodeCampJS/tree/master/images) in the top layer of the project.

### String.slice Flowchart

This graphic was created from my understanding of the Mozilla developer docs on the [String.slice method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/slice#Syntax).

![String slice flowchart](./images/String.slice.png)

#### Want to contribute?

If you want to contribute for whatever reason, then

1. View this repo on GitHub, then click on the Fork icon to create your own copy.
2. Make some commits on your copy of the repo.
3. Make a pull request into my copy of the repo.

#### Want to test out the JavaScript?

1. Be able to use `node` from your code editor's terminal; for example, install Node using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).
2. Run `node <path/to/js/file.js>`. For example, `node js/wherefore-art-thou.js`

Commit message:

Add note about how to properly post code in the FCC forum

README.md, after:

# Thank You

This set of notes is based on the [open source JavaScript curriculum](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/tree/master/curriculum/challenges/english/02-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures) from freeCodeCamp.

Learn to code with [freeCodeCamp.org](https://freecodecamp.org)

## Inspired By freeCodeCamp

I created this repo, because I want to track my progress with freeCodeCamp, and because I just plain enjoy writing about code. Most of the content is Markdown or Text files, but occasionally, I will throw a [js script](https://github.com/hdevilbiss/freeCodeCampJS/tree/master/js) or [flowchart image](https://github.com/hdevilbiss/freeCodeCampJS/tree/master/images) in the top layer of the project.

### Note about posting on the FCC forum

When posting code to the freeCodeCamp forum, it should use markdown formatting and a `[details]` block.

[details]

```javascript
(() => console.log("Hello, world"))();
```

[/details]

### String.slice Flowchart

This graphic was created from my understanding of the Mozilla developer docs on the [String.slice method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/slice#Syntax).

![String slice flowchart](./images/String.slice.png)

#### Want to contribute?

If you want to contribute for whatever reason, then

1. View this repo on GitHub, then click on the Fork icon to create your own copy.
2. Make some commits on your copy of the repo.
3. Make a pull request into my copy of the repo.

#### Want to test out the JavaScript?

1. Be able to use `node` from your code editor's terminal; for example, install Node using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).
2. Run `node <path/to/js/file.js>`. For example, `node js/wherefore-art-thou.js`
