Functional Programming/implement-map-on-a-prototype.md, before:

# Functional Programming: Implement map on a Prototype

Build your own version of `Array.prototype.map` using a `for` loop or the `forEach` method.

## Prompt

Write your own `Array.prototype.myMap()`, which should behave exactly like `Array.prototype.map()`. You should not use the built-in map method. The Array instance can be accessed in the myMap method using `this`.

## Solution Using for loop

This solution uses a `for` loop.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {

  var newArray = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {

    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));

  }

  return newArray;
};
```

This code can be rewritten using ES6 features.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = (callback) => {
  let newArray = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {
    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));
  }
  return newArray;
}
```

## Solution using forEach

I tried to get this down to only one line of code; however, trying to cut it down to even two lines of code, with the second being the `return` statement, returned `undefined`. Let's look at the official solutions next.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {
  let newArray = [];
  this.forEach(item =>
    newArray.push(callback(item))
  );
  return newArray;
};
```

## Official Solutions

### Solution 1: forEach

Solution 1 uses the `forEach` solution, and it is also in 3 lines of code.

### Solution 2: for loop

Solution 2 uses the `for` loop solution, identical to what I pasted above.

### Solution 3

The one-liner! Solution 3 uses the ternary operator to reduce the code down to one line. It provides 2 additional parameters in the function call, both with default values: `arr` and `i`. The array parameter defaults to an empty array, while the index defaults to 0.

The condition checked is whether the index is smaller than the length of the array: whether there is array left to work on.

`i < this.length `

If true, then `myMap` is called recursively, providing the `callback` function parameter as the first argument. The second argument calls the concatenation method on the array parameter, adding on information.

`? this.myMap(callback, ...)`

The add-on to `arr` is the result of the `callback` function on `this[i]`. The value `this[i]` is really, "*the array at the current index*". In other words, the second argument to the recursive call to `myMap` causes `callback` to happen on each indexed element in the original Array that called `myMap`.

`..., arr.concat(callback(this[i])), ...`

The index, `i`, gets incremented by 1 each time that `myMap` gets called recursively.

`... , i + 1);`

Here is the full return statement for cases where the index is less than the array length.

`? this.myMap(callback, arr.concat(callback(this[i])), i + 1)`

#### Solution 3 Full Code

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback, arr = [], i = 0) {
  return i < this.length
    ? this.myMap(callback, arr.concat(callback(this[i])), i + 1)
    : arr;
};
```

### Archive Full Code

Here is the full code from my original solution.

```javascript
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {
  var newArray = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {
    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  console.log(newArray);
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myMap(function(item) {
  return item * 2;
});
```

Commit message:

Add more desc about the false condition
Add more description about the false condition where the index is greater than the array length. In this case, the value stored at arr gets returned.

Functional Programming/implement-map-on-a-prototype.md, after:

# Functional Programming: Implement map on a Prototype

Build your own version of `Array.prototype.map` using a `for` loop or the `forEach` method.

## Prompt

Write your own `Array.prototype.myMap()`, which should behave exactly like `Array.prototype.map()`. You should not use the built-in map method. The Array instance can be accessed in the myMap method using `this`.

## Solution Using for loop

This solution uses a `for` loop.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {

  var newArray = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {

    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));

  }

  return newArray;
};
```

This code can be rewritten using ES6 features.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = (callback) => {
  let newArray = [];

  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {
    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));
  }
  return newArray;
}
```

## Solution using forEach

I tried to get this down to only one line of code; however, trying to cut it down to even two lines of code, with the second being the `return` statement, returned `undefined`. Let's look at the official solutions next.

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {
  let newArray = [];
  this.forEach(item =>
    newArray.push(callback(item))
  );
  return newArray;
};
```

## Official Solutions

### Solution 1: forEach

Solution 1 uses the `forEach` solution, and it is also in 3 lines of code.

### Solution 2: for loop

Solution 2 uses the `for` loop solution, identical to what I pasted above.

### Solution 3

The one-liner! Solution 3 uses the ternary operator to reduce the code down to one line. It provides 2 additional parameters in the function call, both with default values: `arr` and `i`. The array parameter defaults to an empty array, while the index defaults to 0.

The condition checked is whether the index is smaller than the length of the array: whether there is array left to work on.

`i < this.length `

If true, then `myMap` is called recursively, providing the `callback` function parameter as the first argument. The second argument calls the concatenation method on the array parameter, adding on information.

`? this.myMap(callback, ...)`

The add-on to `arr` is the result of the `callback` function on `this[i]`. The value `this[i]` is really, "*the array at the current index*". In other words, the second argument to the recursive call to `myMap` causes `callback` to happen on each indexed element in the original Array that called `myMap`.

`..., arr.concat(callback(this[i])), ...`

The index, `i`, gets incremented by 1 each time that `myMap` gets called recursively.

`... , i + 1);`

Here is the full return statement for cases where the index is less than the array length.

`? this.myMap(callback, arr.concat(callback(this[i])), i + 1)`

In cases where the index is greater than the array length, the value `arr` gets returned.

```javascript
return i < this.length
  ? this.myMap(

    callback, 

    arr.concat(callback(this[i])),i + 1
  
  )

  : arr;
```

#### Solution 3 Full Code

```javascript
Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback, arr = [], i = 0) {
  return i < this.length
    ? this.myMap(callback, arr.concat(callback(this[i])), i + 1)
    : arr;
};
```

### Archive Full Code

Here is the full code from my original solution.

```javascript
// The global variable
var s = [23, 65, 98, 5];

Array.prototype.myMap = function(callback) {
  var newArray = [];
  // Only change code below this line
  for (let i = 0; i < this.length; i++) {
    newArray.push(callback(this[i]));
  }
  // Only change code above this line
  console.log(newArray);
  return newArray;
};

var new_s = s.myMap(function(item) {
  return item * 2;
});
```
